# Hitchhikers Guide to the Structural Wind Engineering Course
## Table of content

[1. Installation Guides](Installation%20Guides)

[2. GiD Modelling](GiD_Modelling.md)

[3. Remote Computing](Remote_Computing.md)

[4. Postprocessing](Postprocessing.md)

[5. ParOptBeam Guide](ParOptBeam_Guide.md)


## Overview

The Hitchhiker's Guide provides a valuable resource for student groups involved in the Structural Wind Engineering (SWE) project, assisting them with the technical aspects of the project. The guide is organized in a mostly chronological order, following the project steps. It is recommended to begin by reviewing the Installation Guides to ensure all necessary tools for the project are set up. Computational modelling generally consists of three main stages:

1. CAD Modelling and Mesh Generation 
2. Solving
3. Postprocessing

# 1. CAD Modelling and Mesh Generation

In this project, GiD will be used for CAD modelling and mesh generation. GiD is a licensed software that will be provided during the course. Installation guidelines [Installation Guides](Installation%20Guides/GiD.md)

# 2. Solving

Since wind engineering is a multiphysics problem, the computational analysis of a building subjected to wind primarily involves Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and Computational Structural Dynamics (CSD). As this project work focuses on one-way coupling, seperate solvers for Fluid and Structural problem are used.

Computational Fluid Dynamic         -    KratosMultiphysics    - [Installation Guides](Installation%20Guides/kratos_with_python.md)  
Computational Structural Dynamics   -    ParOptBeam            - [Installation Guides](Installation%20Guides/ParOptBeam.md)


KratosMultiphysics - KratosMultiphysics is an open-source multiphysics solver developed by CIMNE (International Center for Numerical Methods in Engineering). It includes several applications such as Fluid Dynamics, Structural Mechanics, and Optimization. In this project, the Fluid Mechanics Application of Kratos will be used for CFD simulations. For more information visit https://kratosmultiphysics.github.io/Kratos/ 

ParOptBeam - ParOptBeam (Parametrical Optimizable Beam) is a program from the Chair of Structural Analysis, in which the user can run eigenvalue, static and dynamic analysis of a finite element (FE) beam model.

# 3. Postprocessing

Postprocessing involves visualizing and interpreting the numerical results obtained from the solvers. ParaView, an open-source visualization software, will be used to postprocess the results generated by Kratos. Installation guidelines are provided in the course materials. A separate postprocessing tool is not required for ParOptBeam, as the program itself produces directly interpretable outputs.
Installation guidelines [Installation Guides](Installation%20Guides)
